[APPSEC-12070] [WIP] Bootstrapping API Security Inventory section (#20570)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/security/application_security/api-inventory/_index.md

- **Public Exposure**: Whether the API is processing traffic from the internet
- **Production status**: if the API is running in production environment
- **Sensitive data flows**: Sensitive data handled by the API and flows between APIs.
- **Attack Exposure**: if the endpoint is targeted by attacks (powered by [Application Threat Management][2])
- **Vulnerabilities**:  if the endpoint contains vulnerability (powered by [Application Vulnerability Management][3])

Using the API Security Inventory you can:

- see at a glance your publicly exposed endpoints, which are not requiring authenticated requests
- see at a glance your publicly exposed endpoints, which are handling sensitive data, such as payment card numbers
- see which endpoints are at risk, and pivot directly into the [Threat Monitoring and Protection](/security/application_security/threats/) service for further investigation or response

{{< img src="security/application_security/api/welcome.png" alt="API Security Inventory main page">}}

## How to Enable

If your library is configured to use [remote configuration][1], then the following tracer versions

> are compatible without any additional configuration.

Reviewer: Is there any additional configuration if your library isn't compatible? Is it not supported or just requires some extra steps? I think we could make that more clear to help the user.

> are compatible without any additional configuration.

Author: There are some earlier versions, which are supported but require more complicated configuration.

We weren't sure it's worth putting it here in the docs though, and in case there are some beta partners that are willing to do more complex instructions, we can provide some undocumented instructions to them individually.

At the same time, it would be inaccurate to say "earlier versions are unsupported". 

What about rephrasing as `The following library versions are compatible with API Security Inventory. [Remote Configuration][1]  is required.`

|Technology|Minimum version|
|----------|----------|
|Python    | v2.1.6   |

## How Does it Work?

> API Inventory leverages the datadog tracing library with [ASM enabled](/security/application_security/enabling/) to gather security metadata about API traffic, including the API schema, types of sensitive data processed and the authentication scheme.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API Inventory leverages the Datadog tracing library with [ASM enabled](/security/application_security/enabling/) to gather security metadata about API traffic, including the API schema, types of sensitive data processed, and the authentication scheme.
```

- [Threat Monitoring and Protection](/security/application_security/threats/), and
- [Vulnerability Management](/security/application_security/vulnerability_management/)

> 

Author: Looks like a leftover from an earlier draft, I'll remove these two items. It was initially meant to say we leverage Threats/AVM (and also API Catalog), but we decided in the team to just say "you need ASM enabled" to keep it simple.

API Inventory Security leverages [remote configuration][1] to manage and configure scanning rules detecting sensitive data and authentication.

> For each endpoint we calculate the risks outlined below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following risks are calculated for each endpoint:
```

> ### Service in Production

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Service in production
```

> The `env` tag is checked for patterns that frequently represent non-production environments. For example, detecting `dev`, `alpha`, `beta`, `sandbox`, and similar values, will mark the environment as a non-production one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `env` tag is checked for patterns that frequently represent non-production environments. For example, detecting `dev`, `alpha`, `beta`, `sandbox`, and similar values will mark the environment as non-production. All other environments are marked as production.
```

> All other environments are marked as production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ### Service Under Attack

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Service under attack
```

> This risk is detected for API endpoints that have experienced [attacks](/security/application_security/threats/) in the last week.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This risk is detected for API endpoints that have experienced [attacks](/security/application_security/threats/) within the last week.
```

> ### Processing Sensitive Data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Processing sensitive data
```

> [ASM](/security/application_security/threats/) matches known patterns for sensitive data in API requests. If anything matches, that endpoint is tagged with the type of sensitive data processed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[ASM](/security/application_security/threats/) matches known patterns for sensitive data in API requests. If it finds a match, the endpoint is tagged with the type of sensitive data processed.
```

<div class="alert alert-info">

> Sensitive data scanning in API responses is planned, but is not currently available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I think we should remove this as a callout and add it as a **Note** below.

Author: I removed this, and added it as a note to the "How to enable" table. Because different technologies will have different support levels.

Currently we have python listed, which supports both requests and responses. At some point we'll support ruby with only requests, etc.

</div>

> The matching happens entirely in your application, and none of the sensitive data is sent to Datadog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The matching occurs within your application, and none of the sensitive data is sent to Datadog.
```

> The currently supported sensitive data categories are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The supported sensitive data categories are:
```

> - `pii` (Personally Identifiable Information), detecting:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `PII` (Personally Identifiable Information), detecting:
```

Author: I wanted to have these lowercase to match the possible facet values. I replaced this section with a table to separate the "lowercase facet value" from the English descriptions

>   - Canadian social insurance numbers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Canadian social insurance numbers.
```

>   - United States social security numbers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - United States social security numbers.
```

>   - UK national insurance numbers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - UK national insurance numbers.
```

>   - US vehicle identification numbers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - US vehicle identification numbers.
```

>   - Passport numbers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Passport numbers.
```
Is this any nationality passport numbers ?

> - `payments`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Payments`:
```

>   - Credit card numbers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Credit card numbers.
```

Reviewer: After this section add a Note:

**Note**: Sensitive data scanning in API _responses_ is not currently available.

> ### Publicly Accessible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Publicly accessible
```

> We mark an endpoint as public if the client IP address is not within one of these ranges:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog marks an endpoint as public if the client IP address is not within one of these ranges:
```

- 10.0.0.0/8
- 172.16.0.0/12
- 192.168.0.0/16
- 169.254.1.0/16

> See [Configuring a client IP header](/security/application_security/threats/library_configuration/#configuring-a-client-ip-header) for more information on the required library configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [configuring a client IP header](/security/application_security/threats/library_configuration/#configuring-a-client-ip-header) for more information on the required library configuration.
```

> ### Unauthenticated Endpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Unauthenticated endpoint
```

Authentication is determined by:

> - the presence of `Authorization`, `Token` or `X-Api-Key` headers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The presence of `Authorization`, `Token` or `X-Api-Key` headers.
```

> - the presence of a user id within the trace (i.e. the `@usr.id` APM attribute)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The presence of a user id within the trace (example, the `@usr.id` APM attribute).
```

> - the request has responded with the 401 or 403 status code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The request has responded with a 401 or 403 status code.
```

> ### Contains Exploitable Vulnerabilities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Contains exploitable vulnerabilities
```

This risk is determined by [Vulnerability Management](/security/application_security/vulnerability_management/) for the service hosting the endpoint.

## Performance Impact

By default, API Security Inventory will evaluate every 10th request (10% sample rate).

[1]: /agent/remote_config/
[2]: /security/application_security/threats/

> [3]: /security/application_security/vulnerability_management/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[3]: /security/application_security/vulnerability_management/
[4]: /agent/remote_config/
```

---
title: API Security Inventory
kind: documentation
---

<div class="alert alert-info">API Security Inventory is in beta.</div>

## Overview

API Security Inventory monitors your API traffic to provide visibility into the security posture of your APIs, including:

> - **Authentication**: type of authentication used, such as Basic Auth and API key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Authentication**: Type of authentication used, such as Basic Auth and API key.
```

- **Public Exposure**: Whether the API is processing traffic from the internet.
- **Production status**: If the API is running in a production environment.
- **Sensitive data flows**: Sensitive data handled by the API and flows between APIs.
- **Attack Exposure**: If the endpoint is targeted by attacks (powered by [Application Threat Management][2]).
- **Vulnerabilities**: If the endpoint contains a vulnerability (powered by [Application Vulnerability Management][3]).

Using the API Security Inventory you can:

- See at a glance your publicly exposed endpoints that are not requiring authenticated requests.
- See at a glance your publicly exposed endpoints that are handling sensitive data, such as payment card numbers.
- See which endpoints are at risk, and pivot directly into the [Threat Monitoring and Protection](/security/application_security/threats/) service for further investigation or response.

{{< img src="security/application_security/api/welcome.png" alt="API Security Inventory main page">}}

## Configuration

> If your library is configured to use [Remote Configuration][1], the following tracer versions
> are compatible without any additional configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following library versions are compatible with API Security Inventory. [Remote Configuration][1] is required.
```

|Technology|Minimum version| Support for sensitive data scanning |
|----------|----------|----------|

> |Python    | v2.1.6   | Requests and responses

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Python    | v2.1.6   | Requests and responses |
```

## How it works

> API Inventory leverages the Datadog tracing library with [ASM enabled](/security/application_security/enabling/) to gather security metadata about API traffic, including the API schema, types of sensitive data processed, and the authentication scheme.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
API Inventory leverages the Datadog tracing library with [ASM enabled][5] to gather security metadata about API traffic, including the API schema, types of sensitive data processed, and the authentication scheme.
```

> API Inventory Security leverages [Remote Configuration][4] to manage and configure scanning rules detecting sensitive data and authentication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
API Inventory Security uses [Remote Configuration][4] to manage and configure scanning rules that detect sensitive data and authentication.
```

The following risks are calculated for each endpoint:

### Service in production

> The `env` tag is checked for patterns that frequently represent non-production environments. For example, detecting `dev`, `alpha`, `beta`, `sandbox`, and similar values will mark the environment as non-production. All other environments are marked as production.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `env` tag is checked for patterns that frequently represent non-production environments. For example, if it detects values of `dev`, `alpha`, `beta`, `sandbox`, or similar, it marks the environment as non-production. All other environments are marked as production.
```

### Service under attack

> This risk is detected for API endpoints that have experienced [attacks](/security/application_security/threats/) within the last week.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This risk is detected for API endpoints that have experienced [attacks][2] within the last week.
```

### Processing sensitive data

> [ASM](/security/application_security/threats/) matches known patterns for sensitive data in API requests. If it finds a match, the endpoint is tagged with the type of sensitive data processed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[ASM][2] matches known patterns for sensitive data in API requests. If it finds a match, the endpoint is tagged with the type of sensitive data processed.
```

| US vehicle identification numbers                 | `pii`            | `vin`             |
| Passport numbers                                  | `pii`            | `passport_number` |
| E-mail addresses                                  | `pii`            | `email`           |
| JSON Web Token (JWT)                              | `credentials`    | `json_web_token`  |
| Bearer tokens (found in `Authorization` headers)  | `credentials`    | `bearer_token`    |
| American Express card number                      | `payment`        | `card`            |
| Diners Club card number                           | `payment`        | `card`            |
| JCB card number                                   | `payment`        | `card`            |
| Maestro card number                               | `payment`        | `card`            |
| Mastercard card number                            | `payment`        | `card`            |
| VISA card number                                  | `payment`        | `card`            |
| IBAN bank account number                          | `payment`        | `iban`            |
 
### Publicly accessible

> Datadog marks an endpoint as public if the client IP address is not within one of these ranges:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Datadog marks an endpoint as public if the client IP address is outside these ranges:
```

- 10.0.0.0/8
- 172.16.0.0/12
- 192.168.0.0/16
- 169.254.1.0/16

> See [configuring a client IP header](/security/application_security/threats/library_configuration/#configuring-a-client-ip-header) for more information on the required library configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See [Configuring a client IP header][6] for more information on the required library configuration.
```

### Unauthenticated endpoint

Authentication is determined by:

- The presence of `Authorization`, `Token` or `X-Api-Key` headers.

> - The presence of a user id within the trace (example, the `@usr.id` APM attribute).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The presence of a user ID within the trace (for example, the `@usr.id` APM attribute).
```

- The request has responded with a 401 or 403 status code.

### Contains exploitable vulnerabilities

> This risk is determined by [Vulnerability Management](/security/application_security/vulnerability_management/) for the service hosting the endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This risk is determined by [Vulnerability Management][3] for the service hosting the endpoint.
```

> ## Performance Impact

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Performance impact
```

> By default, API Security Inventory will evaluate every 10th request (10% sample rate).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, API Security Inventory evaluates every tenth request (10% sample rate).
```

[1]: /agent/remote_config/?tab=configurationyamlfile#enabling-remote-configuration
[2]: /security/application_security/threats/
[3]: /security/application_security/vulnerability_management/

> [4]: /agent/remote_config/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[4]: /agent/remote_config/
[5]: /security/application_security/enabling/
[6]: /security/application_security/threats/library_configuration/#configuring-a-client-ip-header
```

---
title: API Security Inventory
kind: documentation
---

<div class="alert alert-info">API Security Inventory is in beta.</div>

## Overview

API Security Inventory monitors your API traffic to provide visibility into the security posture of your APIs, including:

- **Authentication**: Type of authentication used, such as Basic Auth and API key.
- **Public Exposure**: Whether the API is processing traffic from the internet.
- **Production status**: If the API is running in a production environment.
- **Sensitive data flows**: Sensitive data handled by the API and flows between APIs.
- **Attack Exposure**: If the endpoint is targeted by attacks (powered by [Application Threat Management][2]).
- **Vulnerabilities**: If the endpoint contains a vulnerability (powered by [Application Vulnerability Management][3]).

Using the API Security Inventory you can:

- See at a glance your publicly exposed endpoints that are not requiring authenticated requests.
- See at a glance your publicly exposed endpoints that are handling sensitive data, such as payment card numbers.

> - See which endpoints are at risk, and pivot directly into the [Threat Monitoring and Protection](/security/application_security/threats/) service for further investigation or response.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- See which endpoints are at risk, and pivot directly into the [Threat Monitoring and Protection][2] service for further investigation or response.
```

---
title: API Security Inventory
kind: documentation
---

## Overview

API Security Inventory monitors your API traffic to provide visibility into the security posture of your APIs, including:

- **Authentication**: type of authentication used (e.g. Basic Auth, API key, etc.)
- **Public Exposure**: Whether the API is processing traffic from the internet
- **Production status**: if the API is running in production environment
- **Sensitive data flows**: Sensitive data handled by the API and flows between APIs.

> - **Attack Exposure**: if the endpoint is targeted by attacks (powered by Application Threat Management)

Author: Adding links to both threats and VM

> - **Vulnerabilities**:  if the endpoint contains vulnerability (powered by Application Vulnerability Management)

Author: Do you have suggestions on how to change this? If not, I'll just add a link to VM docs for now.

> - **Vulnerabilities**:  if the endpoint contains vulnerability (powered by Application Vulnerability Management)

Reviewer 3: Link is fine

Using the API Security Inventory you can:

- see at a glance your publicly exposed endpoints, which are not requiring authenticated requests
- see at a glance your publicly exposed endpoints, which are handling sensitive data, such as payment card numbers
- see which endpoints are at risk, and pivot directly into the [Threat Monitoring and Protection](/security/application_security/threats/) service for further investigation or response

{{< img src="security/application_security/api/welcome.png" alt="API Security Inventory main page">}}

## How to Enable

### Via Remote Configuration

> If your library is configured to use remote configuration, then the following tracer versions

Author: Adding both here and the other RC ref.

are compatible without any additional configuration.

|Technology|Minimum version|
|----------|----------|
|Python    | v2.1.6   |

### Via Environment Variables

The following library versions support API Security Inventory features by setting
the environment variable `DD_EXPERIMENTAL_API_SECURITY_ENABLED` to `true`.

|Technology|Minimum version|
|----------|----------|
|Java      | v1.22.0  | 
|Python    | v1.16.0  |
|Ruby      | v1.15.0  |

## How Does it Work?

> API Inventory leverages the datadog tracing library with [ASM enabled](/security/application_security/enabling/) to gather security metadata about API traffic, including the API schema, types of sensitive data processed and the authentication scheme.

Author: `authentication scheme` is the right term here.

- [Threat Monitoring and Protection](/security/application_security/threats/), and
- [Vulnerability Management](/security/application_security/vulnerability_management/)

API Inventory Security leverages remote configuration to manage and configure scanning rules detecting sensitive data and authentication.

For each endpoint we calculate the risks outlined below.

### Service in Production

> The `env` tag is checked for patterns that frequently represent non-production environments. For example, detecting `dev`, `alpha`, `beta`, `sandbox`, and similar valuesm, will mark the environment as a non-production one.

Author: Nice spot!

<div class="alert alert-info">
Sensitive data scanning in API responses is planned, but is not currently available.
</div>

The matching happens entirely in your application, and none of the sensitive data is sent to Datadog.

The currently supported sensitive data categories are:

- `pii` (Personally Identifiable Information), detecting:
  - Canadian social insurance numbers
  - United States social security numbers
  - UK national insurance numbers
  - US vehicle identification numbers
  - Passport numbers
- `payments`:
  - Credit card numbers
 
### Publicly Accessible

We mark an endpoint as public if the client IP address is not within one of these ranges:

- 10.0.0.0/8
- 172.16.0.0/12
- 192.168.0.0/16
- 169.254.1.0/16

See [Configuring a client IP header](/security/application_security/threats/library_configuration/#configuring-a-client-ip-header) for more information on the required library configuration.

### Unauthenticated Endpoint

Authentication is determined by:

- the presence of `Authorization`, `Token` or `X-Api-Key` headers
- the presence of a user id within the trace (i.e. the `@usr.id` APM attribute)

> - the request has responded with the 401 or 403 status code

Author: I don't know about that, so I will let the native speakers address the style/writing issues.

- **Authentication**: type of authentication used (e.g. Basic Auth, API key, etc.)
- **Public Exposure**: Whether the API is processing traffic from the internet
- **Production status**: if the API is running in production environment
- **Sensitive data flows**: Sensitive data handled by the API and flows between APIs.
- **Attack Exposure**: if the endpoint is targeted by attacks (powered by Application Threat Management)
- **Vulnerabilities**:  if the endpoint contains vulnerability (powered by Application Vulnerability Management)

Using the API Security Inventory you can:

- see at a glance your publicly exposed endpoints, which are not requiring authenticated requests
- see at a glance your publicly exposed endpoints, which are handling sensitive data, such as payment card numbers
- see which endpoints are at risk, and pivot directly into the [Threat Monitoring and Protection](/security/application_security/threats/) service for further investigation or response

{{< img src="security/application_security/api/welcome.png" alt="API Security Inventory main page">}}

## How to Enable

### Via Remote Configuration

> If your library is configured to use [remote configuration][1], then the following tracer versions

Reviewer 4: Ok, but how do they enable it? Are we enabling it via RC by default? Otherwise we can link to the place in the UI where they can enable it.

Author: @Julio-Guerra They'll be prompted to click on a button when they first go to the API page. 

We'll store a 10% sampling rate in RC at that point (and it'll unlock the UI). The sampling rate is not exposed to users though, for them it's presented as an "activate" button.
